When we have to compute integrals over an infinite domain, like  $(a, \infty)$, our technology from [[§5.2- Definite Integrals]]. The big idea is that one can approximate infinite-area integrals with limits of finite ones. We’ll summarize these into three types:

- **Case 1: Infinite Bounds** $$\int_a^\infty f(x) dx = \lim_{b \to \infty} \int_a^b f(x)dx$$where the integral converges if the corresponding limit does, and diverges if the corresponding limit diverges. We can do this with one sided limits for discontinuities also. 
- **Case 2: Discontinuous Integrands** When $f(x)$ is discontinuous at some $c$ with $a < c < b$, we write:$$\int_a^b f(x)dx = \lim_{e \to c^-} \int_a^e f(x) dx + \lim_{g \to c^+} \int_g^b f(x) dx$$and say that the integral *converges* if each of these limits converges when studied individually.

> [!theorem] Proposition ($p$-Test)
> We have that:
> $$
> \int_{1}^\infty \frac{1}{x^p} dx \begin{cases}
> \text{ converges if } & p > 1\\
> \text{ diverges if } & p \leq 1
> \end{cases}
> $$

^5e5594

> [!theorem] Theorem (Comparison Theorem)
> Suppose that $f$ and $g$ are continuous functions with $f(x) \geq g(x) \geq 0$ for all $x \geq a$:
> - If $\int_a^\infty f(x) dx$ is convergent, then $\int_a^\infty g(x) dx$ is convergent.
> - If $\int_a^\infty g(x) dx$ is divergent, then $\int_a^\infty f(x) dx$ is divergent.
>

> [!example] Example
> Determine whether the following integrals are convergent or divergent:
> $$
> \int_{3}^\infty \frac{1}{(x-2)^{3/2}} dx \quad \text{ and } \quad \int_{2}^\infty e^{-5p} dp
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> For the first integral, we can make the substitution $u = x - 2$ and notice $du = dx$; further, $$\int_3^\infty \frac{1}{(x-2)^{3/2}} = \int_1^\infty \frac{1}{u^{3/2}} du$$
>> which converges by the $p$ test. For the second integral, we first have to take an antiderivative of the integrand:$$\int_{2}^\infty e^{-5p} dp = \lim_{b \to \infty}  \left. \frac{e^{-5p}}{-5} \vphantom{\big|} \right|_{{2}}^b = \lim_{b \to \infty} \frac{-1}{5} \left [ \frac{1}{e^{5b}} - \frac{1}{e^{10}} \right ]$$
>> which surely converges:$$\int_{2}^\infty e^{-5p} dp = \frac{1}{5e^{10}}$$

> [!example] Problem
> Determine the convergence of the following integrals:
> [label=\alph*.]
> - $\displaystyle \int_0^\infty \frac{x^2}{\sqrt{1+x^3}}dx$
> - $\displaystyle \int_1^\infty \frac{1}{x^2 + x}dx$
> - $\displaystyle \int_0^4 \frac{dx}{x^2 - x - 2}$
>
>> [!success]- Solution
>> For $(a)$, we can make the substitution: $u = 1 + x^3$, $du = 3x^2 dx$
>> $$\int_0^\infty \frac{x^2}{\sqrt{1+x^3}}dx = \lim_{b \to \infty} \frac13 \int_1^\infty \frac{du}{\sqrt{u}}$$
>> Without computation, this diverges by the $p$-test. 
>> The second integral should suggest comparison; since we know that increasing the denominator decreases the function, we can bound $\frac{1}{x^2 + x} \leq \frac{1}{x^2}$ which we know converges by the $p$-test. Determining the actual value of this integral is quite challenging, but classifying whether or not it does is important. \\
>> We show $(c)$. We have a polynomial in the denominator, so we factor and use [[§7.4 Partial Fraction Decomposition]]. 
>> $$\frac{1}{x^2 - x - 2} = \frac{1}{3(x-2)} - \frac{1}{3(x+1)}$$
>> This means that our function has discontinuities at $x=-1$ and $x= 2$. Because only $x =2$ is in the range of our integral, this is a case 2 integral:
>> $$\lim_{b \to 2^-} \int_0^b \frac{1}{x^2 - x + 2} dx + \lim_{b \to 2^+} \int_b ^4 \frac{1}{x^2 - x + 2} dx$$
>> The remainder of the problem uses the partial fraction decomposition to compute these integrals. This integral *does not converge.* (Why? eliminate the integrals and study the resulting limits. )

> [!example] Problem
> [Some More Twists] Consider these slightly more challenging problems as well!
> - Determine the values of $p$ for which the integral converges in:
> $$
> \int_0^1 \frac{1}{x^p} dx
> $$
> - $\displaystyle \int_e^\infty \frac{1}{x (\ln (x))^2} dx$
> - $\displaystyle \int_0^1 \frac{dx}{\sqrt{1-x^2}}$
>
>> [!success]- Solution
>> (a) can be solved by just following the exact steps that we have been doing before- this function has a discontinuity at $0$, so we evaluate:
>> $$\lim_{b \to 0^+} \int _0^1 x^{-p} = \lim_{b \to 0^+} \left. \frac{x^{1-p}}{1-p} \vphantom{\big|} \right|_{{b}}^1 = \left [ \frac{1}{1-p} - \lim_{b \to 0^+} \frac{b^{1-p}}{1-p} \right ]$$
>> converges to $\frac{1}{1-p}$ when $p < 1$. \\
>> (b) can be done with a direct substitution, this is an integral we have studied before. \\
>> (c) can be done by recognizing it as a trigonometric substitution, this *does* converge!