> [!theorem] Theorem (Comparison Test)
> Suppose that $\sum a_n$ and $\sum b_n$ are series with positive terms. 
> - If $\sum b_n$ is convergent and $a_n \leq b_n$ for all $n$, then $\sum a_n$ is also convergent.
> - If $\sum b_n$ is divergent and $a_n \geq b_n$ for all $n$, then $\sum a_n$ is also divergent.

As you can see, the above statement has some specific conditions. If, suppose, we’re in a case where it’s easy to find a “bigger” series that diverges, the statement above wouldn’t apply and we’d be out of luck; for this reason, we’ll need another tool to “tie” series together. 


> [!theorem] Theorem (Limit Comparison Test)
> Suppose that $\sum a_n$ and $\sum b_n$ are series with positive terms. If
> $$
> \lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{a_n}{b_n} = c
> $$
> for some constant finite number $c > 0$, then either both series converge or both diverge.

> [!example] Example
> Determine whether the following series converge or diverge:
> $$
> \sum_{k = 1}^\infty \frac{\ln(k)}{k} \quad \text{ and } \quad \sum_{n = 2}^\infty \frac{n - 1}{\sqrt{n^6 + 1}}
> $$
> >[!success]- Solution
> >Diverges, compare with $\sum \frac1k$. The second converges with comparison to $1/n^2$.

> [!example] Example
> Determine whether the following series converge or diverge:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{4n^2 - n}{n^3 + 9}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Removing the “filler” terms, we have the string of inequalities, we see that:
>> $$ \frac{4n^2 - n}{n^3 + 9} \leq \frac{4n^2}{n^3 + 9} \leq \frac{4n^2 - n}{n^3} = \frac4n$$
>> From here, we see that $\sum \frac4n$ diverges, but since it’s a *bigger* sequence that diverges, we cannot use the comparison test. So, defining: $$a_n = \frac{4n^2 - n}{n^3 + 9} \quad \text{ and } \quad b_n = \frac4n$$ let’s complete a *limit* comparison: $$\lim_{n \to \infty} \left | \frac{a_n}{b_n} \right | = \lim_{n \to \infty} \left | \frac{4n^2 - n}{n^3 + 9} \cdot \frac n4 \right | = \lim_{n \to \infty} \left | \frac{n^3 \left ( 4 - \frac{1}{n} \right )}{n^3 \left ( 4 + \frac{36}{n^3} \right )} \right | = 1 $$ Now, by limit comparison, and the fact that: $$4\sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac1n $$ diverges by $p$-series, we know that the original series diverges as well.

> [!example] Problem
> Determine whether the following series converges or diverges:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{2n^3 + 7}{n^4 \sin^2 (n)}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Notice that $0 \leq \sin^2(n) \leq 1$, so we can write:
>> $$ \frac{2n^3 + 7}{n^4 \sin^2(n)} \geq \frac{2n^3}{n^4 \sin^2(n)} \geq \frac{2n^3}{n^4} = \frac{2}{n} $$
>> and get divergence by comparison.

> [!example] Problem
> Determine whether the following series converges or diverges:
> $$
> \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{\sqrt{2 n^2+4 n+1}}{n^3+9}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> **HINT:** Use limit comparison with the series:
>> $$\sum_{n = 0}^ \infty \frac{\sqrt{2}}{n^2}$$
>> (Similar steps to above show where this comes from.)