> [!definition] Definition
> A series $\sum a_n$ is called **absolutely convergent** if the series of absolute values $\sum \left | a_n \right |$ is convergent.

This is a stronger condition than the usual sense of convergence, as all the terms are positive (think that nothing in the series cancels out). Intuitively, think about the series 
$$
\sum \frac1n \quad \text{ versus } \quad \sum \frac{(-1)^n}{n}
$$
which diverge and converge, respectively. This gives the definition below, but note that **absolutely convergent implies conditionally convergent**

> [!definition] Definition
> A series $\sum a_n$ is conditionally convergent if it is convergent but not absolutely convergent.

> [!theorem] Theorem (The Ratio Test)
> We have three cases:
> - $L < 1$: If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty}\left|\frac{a_{n+1}}{a_n}\right|=L<1$, then the series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is absolutely convergent (and therefore convergent).
> - $L > 1$: If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty}\left|\frac{a_{n+1}}{a_n}\right|=L>1$ or $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty}\left|\frac{a_{n+1}}{a_n}\right|=\infty$, then the series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is divergent.
> - $L = 1$: If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty}\left|\frac{a_{n+1}}{a_n}\right|=1$, the Ratio Test is inconclusive; that is, no conclusion can be drawn about the convergence or divergence of $\sum a_n$.

^ab1e80

The Ratio test is really effective when things cancel out in fractions, like factorials or exponentials. 


> [!theorem] Theorem (The Root Test)
> We have three cases:
> - $L < 1$: If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{\left|a_n\right|}=L<1$, then the series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is absolutely convergent (and therefore convergent).
> -  $L > 1$ If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{\left|a_n\right|}=L>1$ or $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{\left|a_n\right|}=\infty$, then the series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is divergent.
> - $L = 1$: If $\lim _{n \rightarrow \infty} \sqrt[n]{\left|a_n\right|}=1$, the Root Test is inconclusive.

This test works really effective when you have a series with everything raised to the $n$th power. 

> [!example] Example
> Test the convergence of the following series:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \left ( \frac{2n+3}{3n+4} \right )^n \quad \text{ and } \quad \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{n^n}{n!}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Use the root test on the first, where the nth root gives:
>> $$ \lim_{n \to \infty} \sqrt[n]{\left ( \frac{2n+3}{3n+4} \right )^n} = \lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{2n+3}{3n+4} = \frac23 < 1 \checkmark $$
>> For the second, use the ratio test:
>> $$ \lim_{n \to \infty} \left | \frac{a_{n + 1}}{a_n} \right | = \left | \frac{ \frac{(n+1)^{n+1}}{(n+1)!}}{ \frac{(n)^{n}}{(n)!}} \right |= \lim_{n \to \infty} \left |  \frac{(n+1)^{n + 1}}{(n + 1)!} \cdot \frac{n!}{n^n} \right | = \lim_{n \to \infty} \left |  \frac{(n+1)^{n }}{n^n}  \right | = e > 1 $$
>> so this diverges.

> [!example] Problem
> Test the following series for convergence:
> $$
> \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{n^{100} 100^n}{n !}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> See a factorial, apply the ratio test. This converges.

> [!example] Problem
> Test the following series for convergence:
> $$
> \sum_{n=1}^{\infty}\left(\frac{n^2+1}{2 n^2+1}\right)^n
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> See the power of $n$, take the root test. The inside limit is $\frac12$, so this converges.
>
