> [!theorem] Theorem (Integral Test)
> Suppose $f$ is a continuous, positive, decreasing function on $[1, \infty)$ and let $a_n=f(n)$. Then the series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is convergent if and only if the improper integral $\int_1^{\infty} f(x) d x$ is convergent. In other words:
> - If $\int_1^{\infty} f(x) d x$ is convergent, then $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is convergent.
> - If $\int_1^{\infty} f(x) d x$ is divergent, then $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$ is divergent. 

For some intuition on the previous statement, consider drawing a Riemann sum of the integral with $\Delta x = 1$ and start computing the area beneath the curve that way. 

> [!theorem] Theorem ($p$-Series, compare with [[§7.8 Improper Integrals#^5e5594|the integral version]])
> The $p$-series 
> $$ \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{1}{n^p} \quad \text{ is } \quad \begin{cases}\text{convergent } & p > 1\\ \text{divergent } & p \leq 1 \end{cases} $$

> [!example] Example
> Determine the convergence of the series:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{\ln(n)}{n}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> In order to pair this up with the corresponding function: $f(x) = \frac{\ln(x)}{x}$, we have to establish all of the prerequisite conditions:
>> - **$f$ is Continuous:** $\ln(x), \frac1x$ are continuous on $(0,\infty)$, so their ratio is well defined and continuous. 
>> - **$f$ is Positive:** Ratio of two positive functions on the domain $(0,\infty)$, so positive.
>> - **$f$ is Decreasing:** Recall that it suffices to show that the derivative is negative. We see: $$ f’(x) = \frac{\frac1x (x) - \ln(x) \cdot 1}{x^2} = \frac{1 - \ln(x)}{x^2} < 0 $$ 
>> for all $x \in (0, \infty)$. 
>> These complete the conditions necessary for the Integral Test, so we can compute:
>> $$ \int_{1}^\infty \frac{\ln(x)}{x} dx $$Since this integral diverges, the series must diverge as well.

> [!example] Problem
> Compute the convergence of the following series:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{n}{n^2 + 1}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Corresponding integral diverges.

> [!example] Problem
> Compute the convergence of the following series:
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{1}{n^2 + 2n + 2}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Converges, use the corresponding function, and then partial fractions to compute the integral.

> [!example] Problem
> Can we use the integral test on the following function?
> $$
> \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{\cos \pi n}{\sqrt{n}}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> No, positivity fails.
