A series is understood as a special kind of [[§11.1 Sequences|sequence]]. The remainder of the course will be spent proving properties of series, and then studying a special class of them that help us describe functions: there’s a really cool [use of series]({https://www.desmos.com/calculator/dzp8ygiudo):

> [!definition] Definition (Series)
> Given a sequence $\left ( a_n \right )_{n\in \mathbb{N}}$, we can define the $n$th **partial sum**:
> $$
> s_n := \sum_{i = 1}^n a_i \quad \text{ with } \quad  \lim_{n \to \infty} s_n = \sum_{i = 1}^\infty a_i
> $$
> If this sum converges, we say that the series converges, otherwise, we say it diverges.

> [!definition] Definition (Geometric Series)
> Consider a geometric sequence of the form:
> $$
> a, ar, ar^2, ar^3, \cdots
> $$
> If $-1 < r < 1$, the partial sums have:
> $$
> s_n = \sum_{i = 0}^n ar^i = \frac{a (1-r^n)}{1-r} \quad \text{ and } \quad s = \lim_{n \to \infty} s_n = \sum_{i = 0}^n ar^i = \frac{a}{1-r}
> $$
> If $\left | r \right | \geq 1$, the series diverges.

^df9d00

> [!theorem] Theorem (Test for Divergence)
> If a series $\displaystyle \sum_{i = 1}^\infty a_n$ is convergent, then $\displaystyle \lim_{n \to \infty} a_n = 0$. Conversely, if $\displaystyle \lim_{n \to \infty} a_n \neq 0$, or if it diverges, then the series $\displaystyle \sum_{i = 1}^\infty a_n$ diverges as well.

>[!warning] WARNING
>The converse is false. Just because a sequence tends to zero, does not mean that the corresponding series of partial sums converges as well. As an example, the harmonic series, defined by:
> $$\sum_{i = 1}^\infty \frac1n = \infty,$$
> that is, the series diverges.


> [!theorem] Theorem
> We have the following properties:
> - $\displaystyle \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} c a_n=c \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n$
> - $\displaystyle \sum_{n=1}^{\infty}\left(a_n+b_n\right)=\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n+\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} b_n$
> - $\displaystyle \sum_{n=1}^{\infty}\left(a_n-b_n\right)=\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} a_n-\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} b_n$
>

> [!example] Problem
> Provide an example of a convergent series and a divergent series. Why do these sequences converge/diverge? Draw a picture. ([Link](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/avy0qe8bm3?lang=fr))

> [!example] Problem
> Determine whether the following sequences converge, and compute their sum if they do:
> $$
> \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{(-3)^{n-1}}{4^n} \quad \text{ and } \quad \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{1}{n (n+1)}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> First one is a convergent geometric series, with $a = \frac14$ and $r = \frac{-3}{4}$. This gives:
>> $$ S = \frac{\frac14}{1 + \frac34} = \frac17 $$
>> For the second, we apply [[§7.4 Partial Fraction Decomposition]] first, to gain  $$\sum_{n = 1}^\infty \frac{1}{n (n+1)} = \sum_{n = 1}^\infty \left ( \frac{1}{n} - \frac{1}{n + 1} \right )$$If we expand, we get a telescoping sum!
>> $$ S_n = \left ( \frac11 - \frac12 \right ) + \left ( \frac12 - \frac13 \right ) + \cdots  = 1 - \frac{1}{n+1}$$
>> which approaches $1$ as $n \to \infty$.

> [!example] Problem
> Determine the convergence of the following series. If it converges, what does it converge to?
> $$
> \sum_{n = 1}^ \infty \frac{3}{n (n + 3)}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Converges to $\frac{11}{6}$ by the same steps as the previous problem.

> [!example] Problem
> Determine the convergence of the following series. If it converges, what does it converge to?
> $$
> \frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{9}+\frac{1}{27}+\frac{2}{81}+\frac{1}{243}+\frac{2}{729}+\cdots
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> This is a sum of geometric series, separate terms that have numerator 1 and numerator 2, both have $r = \frac19$.