

> [!definition] Definition (Limit of a Sequence)
> A sequence (think list of numbers $a_1, a_2, \cdots$) has a limit $L$ if for every $\varepsilon > 0$, there exists an integer $N$ such that for all $n > N$, $\left | a_n - L \right | < \varepsilon$.

> [!theorem] Theorem
> If $\lim_{x \to \infty} f(x) = L$ and $f(n) = a_n$ for some sequence $a_n$, then $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n = L$. 
> 

Remember that limits preserve sums ($\lim (a+b) = \lim a + \lim b$), differences, products, quotients, scalar multiples, and powers (in a sense they just work really nicely for us). 

> [!theorem] Theorem (Squeeze Theorem) 
> If $a_n \leq b_n \leq c_n$ and we have
> $$
> L = \lim_{n \to \infty} a_n = \lim_{n \to \infty} c_n \quad \text{ then } \quad \lim_{n \to \infty} b_n  = L
> $$

> [!theorem] Theorem
> If $\lim \left | a_n \right | = 0$ then $\lim a_n  = 0$.

> [!theorem] Theorem
> If $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n = L$ and the function $f$ is continuous at $L$, we then:
> $$
> \lim_{n \to \infty} f(a_n) = f(L)
> $$

> [!theorem] Theorem
> [Geometric Sequences]
> The sequence $(r^n)_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ is convergent if $-1 < r \leq 1$ and diverges for all other values:
> $$
> \lim _{n \to \infty} r^n = \begin{cases}
> 0 & \left | r \right | < 1\\
> 1 & r = 1
> \end{cases}
> $$

I won’t define bounded or monotonic really precisely here, but think “bounded below” as just a number that’s lower than every point of the sequence, “bounded above” is a number above every point of the sequence, and monotonic just means the sequence is always increasing or always decreasing.

>[!note] Theorem (Monotone Sequence Theorem) 
>If we can show that a sequence is bounded and monotonic, then it converges.

Draw pictures to help your intuition on these theorems, as they'll come in handy! 

>[!example] Problem
>draw a picture of the sequence:
>$$ a_1 = 2, \quad \text{ and } \quad a_{n+1} = \frac{a_n}{1+ a_n} $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>>[Use this link](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/5rtmqiqpv2)

> [!example] Problem
> Find a formula for the following sequences, assuming the pattern continues:
> - $\left \{ \frac12, \frac14, \frac{1}{6}, \frac{1}{8}, \frac{1}{10}, \cdots \right \}$
> - $\left \{ 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, \cdots \right \}$
> - $\left \{ \frac12, \frac{-4}{3}, \frac94, \frac{-16}{5}, \frac{25}{6}, \cdots \right \}$
>
>> [!success]- Solution
>> - $a_n = \frac{1}{2n}$
>> - $a_{n} = a_{n - 1} + a_{n-2}$
>> - $\displaystyle \frac{(-1)^{n+1} n^2}{n+1}$

> [!example] Problem
> Determine whether the following sequences converge:
> $$
> \left \{ \sin(n) \right \} \quad \text{ and } \quad a_n = \frac{(-1)^n}{2 \sqrt{n}}
> $$
>> [!success]- Solution
>> First doesn’t, it doesn’t get “close” to anything.
>> Second will converge. Using Theorem , we see that we can evaluate the limit of the absolute value first, which is:
>> $$ \left | a_n \right | = \frac{1}{2 \sqrt{n}} $$
>> Using Theorem , it suffices to check the end behavior of the function
>> $$\lim_{x \to \infty} \frac{1}{2\sqrt{x}} = 0$$
>> meaning that the sequence $(a_n)$ converges as well.

> [!example] Problem
> Consider the sequence:
> $$
> a_n = \arctan \left (  \ln (n) \right )
> $$
> Does it converge? If so, what to?
>> [!success]- Solution
>> Yes, to $\frac{\pi}{2}$; use Theorem

